So you've seen how to detect and mask a green screen background,
but this detection relied on a few assumptions to work.
It assumed that the scene was very well lit
and that the screen was a very consistent green color.
What would happen if the lighting changed or if part of
the background was in shadow or washed out and bright?
A simple RGB threshold wouldn't work very well in this scenario.
So how can we consistently detect objects under varying light conditions?
Well, there are many other ways to represent
the colors in an image besides just composed of red,
green, and blue values.
These different color representations are often called color spaces.
RGB is red, green, blue color space.
You can think of this as a 3D shape,
a cube in this case,
where any color can be represented by a 3D coordinate of R, G, and B values.
For example, white at this corner has a value of 255 for red,
green, and blue values.
There's also HSV color space for hue, saturation,
and value, and HLS for hue, lightness, and saturation.
These two spaces separate out the apparent brightness
and the color in an image into separate components.
For example, in HSV color space,
the value or V component is a good measure of brightness.
A high value means it's very light,
and a low value means it's very dark.
The saturation component is a good measure for color intensity.
Hue is a measurement that indicates the actual color of something, like whether it's red,
or green, or purple, and so on,
and it should stay fairly consistent in shadow or excessive brightness.
Because these spaces separate color and brightness into different channels,
these are some of the most commonly used colors bases in image processing.
Next, we'll see why they're so useful by going through
an example of converting an image to HSV color space.